Package inclusion guide document (#464)
Azure/CloudShell: docs/package-inclusion-guide.md

# Azure Cloud Shell Package Inclusion Guide

## Background

> There are millions (or potentially billions) of Linux packages. This guide goes through the principles of what the Azure Cloud Shell team uses to consider what gets included in the service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are multiple Linux packages that exists out there, what determines which tool / package is installed in the Cloud Shell? This guide goes through the principles that help decide what gets included in the Cloud Shell service.
```

Reviewer 2: I also think we could say there are a "large number of linux packages" - we just dont know if the number is millions or billions.

> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## General Principles

> 1. Useful for Azure users and administrators 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The tool / binary / package:

1. Is useful for Azure users.
```

> 1. Useful for Azure users and administrators 

Reviewer 3: Is there a way for each item to link to its expanded definition below?

Author: I guess we could. The links could get a bit tricky though. For example, for point 2, it links to the Azure Linux repo. If we also wanted to link to the second point (in the discussion of principles), it may get a bit confusing.

> 2. Available on [Azure Linux Operating System](https://github.com/microsoft/azurelinux) 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Is available on [Azure Linux](https://github.com/microsoft/azurelinux):
    - Find out which packages are available on Azure Linux by following [this guide](add-package-into-cloudshell.md/#Check-if-package-is-available-in-Azure-Linux).
```

> 3. Vulnerability free 
>     - No unfixed CVEs for the package on Azure Linux OS past 30 days 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Is consistently vulnerability free:
    - Does not have unfixed CVE lingering around. 
```

I think we already made a point that it has to be a package on Azure Linux, so we don't have to be super specific here.

> 4. Appropriate Licensing 
>     - Azure Cloud Shell should be allowed to both consume and distribute the package 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Has appropriate license:
    - Azure Cloud Shell (or Microsoft) should be allowed to both consume and distribute the package freely.
```

> 5. Well-maintained and supported 
>     - Package should NOT be deprecated or archived 
>     - Package repo should have a contribution/commit within the last 120 days 
>     - The package should be of a stable version. The package should not be in alpha or beta version. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Is well-maintained and supported:
    - It should NOT be deprecated or archived.
    - The code repository should have a contribution / commit within the last 120 days.
    - It should be of a stable version, not an alpha or beta version. 
```

> 6. Reasonable package size 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Is reasonably sized:
    - Cloud Shell cannot accommodate something that is gigabyte in size.
```

Author: I personally like having it more generic

> [!NOTE]
> After these principles have been satisfied, the Azure Cloud Shell team reserves the right to make final decisions on package inclusion at their discretion.

> ## Discussion of Principles

Reviewer: Should we move the discussion right under the principles itself?

Author: I think it's nice to just have something to refer to. If they want more context, they can always read it more.

1. Useful for Azure users and administrators 

All packages shipped by Azure Cloud Shell should be useful to Azure users. This principle is fundamental to the core of what we ship. If the package is not believed to be used widely, it will not be shipped in Cloud Shell. 

2. Available on Azure Linux OS 

> Due to secure supply chain compliance that Cloud Shell abides to, we are required to consume packages from secure sources. The guidance from the supply chain team is to ONLY consume from Azure Linux OS. When it’s available on Azure Linux, we have the confidence that the binary has been built by a trusted Microsoft source. To find if the package is available in Azure Linux OS, please follow the documentation provided here: [Add a package into Cloud Shell](./add-package-into-cloudshell.md#requesting-the-package)

Reviewer 3: Should we add that it must be in Azure Linux 2.0 right now and that we will eventually switch to Azure Linux 3.0?

3. Vulnerability free 

> Due to new Microsoft security initiatives, we are striving to ship Cloud Shell with no vulnerabilities in all packages. The compliance rule that has been set on Cloud Shell is to not ship packages with unfixed vulnerabilities of over 30 days. Via the [Trivy software](https://trivy.dev/) for example, if a CVE has been detected on Jan 1st, we expect the package to be fixed and available in Azure Linux before Jan 31. 

Reviewer 3: Eventually they won't be "new", so I don't think we need to include that detail

```suggestion
Due to Microsoft security initiatives, we are striving to ship Cloud Shell with no vulnerabilities in all packages. The compliance rule that has been set on Cloud Shell is to not ship packages with unfixed vulnerabilities of over 30 days. Via the [Trivy software](https://trivy.dev/) for example, if a CVE has been detected on Jan 1st, we expect the package to be fixed and available in Azure Linux before Jan 31. 
```
